Welcome back everyone to your challenge tasks for these select where statement.
We just learned how to combine the select clause which allows us to grab columns along with the where
statement which allows us to actually specify conditions based off those columns using logical operators
and comparison operators.
So we have just three quick tasks to make sure you understood everything something I want to point out
though is that we now know enough to answer more realistic business questions and tasks instead of just
directly asking for specific sequel tasks.
So from now on the challenges we're going to try our best to focus more on directly asking the business
related questions to more realistically model a typical task you would see as a sequel developer in
a real world workplace.
So what I mean by that is from now on our challenge examples will focus more on something like how many
customers have the first named Gerard.
Instead of asking a question such as you select where to find Gerard in the first name column in the
customer table.
So we're going to focus much more on trying to have you build the skills of translating a business question
or business related task to an actual sequel query since that's really where a lot of the work takes
place.
OK one last thing.
Keep in mind is that as you continue to learn more about sequel especially now that we're kind of past
this hump of the Select where statement you're going to soon realize there are usually many different
ways to arrive at the same solution.
So you should be verifying your work mainly against the expected result instead of our example sequel
solution since your sequel solution may begin to vary just a little bit from ours.
But as long as you're getting the same expected result then you're totally OK so let's get started.
So we'll go over the business situation and question.
Sure you'd expect the result.
So show you some hints if you need them and then show you our solution so the first challenge a customer
forgot their wallet at our store and we need to track down their email to inform them.
So the question is what is the e-mail for the customer with the name Nancy Thomas.
So we open up the wallet.
We see that their name is Nancy Thomas and we want to figure out what is the e-mail so we can inform
them OK.
Coming up next as the expected result so the expected answer should look something like this.
You should eventually realize it's Nancy that Thomas secure customer dot org.
OK here come some hints if you need them so the hints are to use the customer table.
You should also make sure the capitalization and spelling of the names is correct.
You may need to use and to combine conditions for the first and last name and make sure to use single
quotes around the string.
Here comes the solution so our solution for challenge number one was to select the e-mail column from
the customer table where first name is equal to Nancy.
And last name is equal to Thomas.
If you take a closer look at that customer table you'll realize that there's actually only one person
with the first name Nancy and that means you could just technically go off the first name but realistically
you want to make sure to go off first name and last name.
And luckily for us there's only one person named Nancy Thomas in our database stuff would definitely
get more challenging if we had multiple Nancy Thomases which means we probably have to send multiple
emails.
OK.
Here comes Challenge number two.
So a customer wants to know what the movie outlaw hanky is about.
Could you give them the description for the movie outlaw hanky.
OK.
Here comes the expected result so they expect the answer is this description which is kind of wacky
but outlaw Key is a thoughtful story of an astronaut and a composer who must conquer a dog in the Sahara
desert.
All right.
So here come some hints in case you need them hints for Challenge number two is to use the film table.
Make sure the capitalization and spelling and spacing of the movie name is correct in case you're getting
an error on that.
And make sure to use single quotes around the string.
Here comes our example solution so here would just select the description column from film table where
title is equal to outlaw hanky.
You have to make sure that capitalization is correct.
Since it will actually check for capitalization matching up OK here comes your next and last challenge
for this little lecture so challenge number three is a customer is late on their movie Return and we've
mailed them a letter to their address at 2 5 9 IPO drive and we should also call them on the phone to
let them know.
So we want to do is can you get us the phone number for the customer who lives at this address of 2
5 9 IPO drive all right.
Here comes the expected result so the expected answer for Challenge Number Three should be this phone
number here.
Here comes some hints in case you need them so he should be using the address table.
Make sure to capitalization and spelling of the address is correct and use single quotes around the
string and finally here's the solution.
The solution is simply select PHONE FROM address WHERE address is equal to 2 5 9 IPO drive.
Something to keep in mind here is that the table can't share a name with the column.
So notice here that the column is address as well as a table name is address so don't get too confused
here thinking it's referring to the same thing.
The from is asking for the address table.
The where is addressing the address column.
All right that's it for your select where challenges and I'll see you at the next lecture.